### Date :  2022-08-17 17:22

### Problem : 206. Reverse Linked List


### From : LeetCode 206
		#LinkedList
---
### Problem Prompt
Given the `head` of a singly linked list, reverse the list, and return _the reversed list_.


---
### Problem Analysis
> This problem can be solved in two different methods. By the way, this is one of the most famous interview question that has been being asked for the last few years. What the problem asks for is very simple. You are given a linked list and you need to reverse all the direction. 1 -> 2 -> 3 -> 4 would be 4->3 ->2-> 1 and return it head, which is 4. Like I said,  this can be solved in two different way. One is  iterative method which is traditional method to solve linked list question. You traverse the linked list until the node points to null. I think this is really good question for testing interviewee's linked list understanding because in order for you to implement iterative approach, you need to define three pointers "previous" , "current" , "next" which is how we usually operate the linked list. 

> Another approach would be recursion which I will cover next time :


---
### Implementation Solution
```cpp
class Solution {
    public:
        ListNode* reverseList(ListNode* head) {
            ListNode* prev = nullptr;
            ListNode* curr = head;

            while(curr!= nullptr) {
                ListNode* nextNode = curr->next;
                curr -> next = prev;
                prev = curr;
                curr = nextNode;
            }

            return prev;
        }
};

```

>  It took me a while to figure out pointer syntax in C++ . I think the easies way to understand is when reading pointer expression, you have to put "What it's points to" For example,
> 	 `ListNode* curr = head`  means variable `curr` get what `head` is pointing to. Another confusing part for me to understand is when definition contains `->` sign For example, `ListNode* nextNode = curr->next` , `curr->next` doesn't mean what `curr` is pointing to, It means "What `curr` is pointing to" 's `next` is pointing to. If I can remember these two things, I think it would be okay for me to understand what it says. 
> Let's look at the syntaxes in while loops,
> 	It does say following :
> 		"Define nextNode and get what curr is pointing to's next variable pointing to."
> 		"what curr is pointing to's next pointing to" get what prev is pointing to
> 		"prev gets what curr is pointing to"
> 		"curr get what nextNode is pointing to"
---
##### Repeat Counter
