### Date :  2022-08-25 13:53

### Problem : Two Sum


### From : LeetCode#1
		#array #hashmap
---
### Problem Prompt
Given an array of integers `nums` and an integer `target`, return _indices of the two numbers such that they add up to `target`_.

You may assume that each input would have **_exactly_ one solution**, and you may not use the _same_ element twice.

You can return the answer in any order.


---
### Problem Analysis
> I am writing this analysis after I have done this problem few times maybe like three times. What I realized from doing this problem again is , I shouldn't try  to do the problem by trying to remember what I did last time. It's really hard to think of what I exactly did last time.  Instead this time, I opened a empty note and tried to visualize the given example. Now that I had done this part, I was able to see what I need to do. For example this problem, I knew I have to use the hash table and I knew vague memory that there will be some number that  target - current number the vector pointing.  But maybe because of lack of repeat, I wasn't sure what to do.  SO I opened up my note and draw the given examples : int array and hash table. And I iterate the number in the array, I realized I need to find some number that target - current number. That means if that number exist in my table, I can return it its index, and current index and also Initially I drew my map whose key is index and the value is the value. But  I realized, in order to return two index, index need to be the value because there is no map operation who returning its key.
> 

### RCPCC
RC : For given array `nums` and an integer `target` , find indices where two values are added up to target.( There is always answer)
P : Define hash map and Traverse an array doing :
		- define some number such that `somenumber = target - nums[i]`
		- If there is `somenumber` in hash map, return current index `i` and `map[somenumber]`
		- otherwise, put `nums[i] , i` into map.

C : All computation is done within one traversing which mean time complexity be O(N) time limit doesn't occur


---
### Implementation Solution
```cpp

class Solution {
    public :
        vector<int> twoSum(vector<int>& nums, int target){
            map<int ,int > mp;
            vector<int> ans;
            for(int i =0; i<nums.size(); i++){
                int someNum = target - nums[i];
                if(mp.find(someNum) != mp.end()){
                    return {i,mp[someNum]};
                }
                mp[nums[i]] = i;
            }
        return ans;
        }
};



```
Possible mistake : 


---
##### Time and Space Complexity


