### Date :  2022-08-18 14:13

### Problem : Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock


### From : Leet Code 121
		#`Array`
---
### Problem Prompt
You are given an array `prices` where `prices[i]` is the price of a given stock on the `ith` day.

You want to maximize your profit by choosing a **single day** to buy one stock and choosing a **different day in the future** to sell that stock.

Return _the maximum profit you can achieve from this transaction_. If you cannot achieve any profit, return `0`.


---
### Problem Analysis
> This is typical array problem. I think the key point is to map the values in array into mathematical graph. If you do that, we can define `when to buy` . Initially it is defined as really large number and when we traverse the array the value of the first index would be the `when to buy` and if we add another condition for defining `answer`, we can generate the right answer. 
> In short, 
> 	1. define buying point and answer and initialize it very large number and 0 respectively.
> 	2. going through loop and check the following condition :
> 		1. if current point is less than buyingPoint, then set the buyingPoint to currentPoint.
> 		2. if currentPoint - buyingPoint is greater than answer, update the answer.
> 	3. return answer

---
### Implementation Solution
```cpp

class Solution {
    public :
        int maxProfit(vector<int> &prices) {
            int buyingPoint = INT_MAX;
            int answer=0;

            for(int i =0; i< prices.size(); i++){
                if(prices[i]< buyingPoint){
                    buyingPoint = prices[i];
                }
                else if(prices[i] - buyingPoint > answer){
                    answer = prices[i] - buyingPoint;
                }
            }
            return prices;

        }
}



```

Notice, second condition in the loop is expressed as `else if` . this is because logically, if the first condition was executed, that means `buyingPoint` is greater than current value in the loop, which `current value` - `buyingPoint` can never be greater than `answer` .


---
##### Repeat Counter
	