### Date :  2022-08-21 14:06

### Problem :  Clone Graph


### From : LeetCode Problem 133
		#`graph`
---
### Problem Prompt
Given a reference of a node in a **[connected](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Connectivity_(graph_theory)#Connected_graph)** undirected graph.

Return a [**deep copy**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object_copying#Deep_copy) (clone) of the graph.

Each node in the graph contains a value (`int`) and a list (`List[Node]`) of its neighbors.


---
### Problem Analysis
>I think this is very typical graph traversal problem. Just like many graph traversal problems, this problem also can be solved using bfs and dfs. I will introduce the solution using depth-first-search first.  Let's first see what we are given. We are given a function that must return a type called `Node` which is a class that consist of integer and vector that indicate all the adjacent nodes. The problem is asking for `deep copy` for all the given nodes. For example, if we are given `node 1` and suppose `node 1` has integer 1 and adjacency vector   `[ 2 , 4] `, then what we need to do here is to create some node called `1'`   whose integer value is 1 and its adjacency vector `[2' , 4']` . 

>Like I said above, this is graph traversal problem, which mean we have to traverse the given nodes.  

###### Hash Map
>The main idea of this problem is to traverse the nodes. We are going to create a new node as we visit the given nodes. Then here is the question that I should have at this point. "How can I manage the  visited node" The answer is "Hash Map" HashMap can't contain duplicated key value, which mean whenever our map contains key, it means we have visited the node before. 
>

##### How to copy a adjacency vector
> Unlike copying an integer value, copying a vector that contains corresponding newly created nodes are not intuitive. The key point of understanding this process is on the first condition on `dfs` function. " if the map contains its `key`, return it's `value`" Then when we are at the very bottom of recursion, the function starts to return, which is newly created node(`cloneNode`) that contain same value as original node and because we push_back `dfs`'s  returning value into its adjacency vector, we are going to end up with deep copy.

---
### Implementation Solution

DFS Solution
```cpp
class Solution {

    public:
        Node* cloneGraph(Node* node) {
        unordered_map<Node*, Node*> visited;
        if(node == NULL) {
            return node;
        }
        
        return dfs(node,visited);

        }

        Node* dfs(Node* cur, unordered_map<Node*, Node*>& mp) {
            if(mp.find(cur)!=mp.end()){
                return mp[cur];
            }

            Node* cloneNode = new Node(cur->val);
            mp[cur] = cloneNode;

            for(Node* it : cur->neighbors){
                (cloneNode->neighbors).push_back(dfs(it,mp));
            }
            return cloneNode;
        }
};




```


---
##### Repeat Counter

#SeeIfAnotherMethod  : BFS ?
