### Date :  2022-08-23 13:56

### Problem : Longest Substring Without Repeating Characters


### From : LeetCode 3
		#string #slidingwindow
---
### Problem Prompt
Given a string `s`, find the length of the **longest substring** without repeating characters.


---
### Problem Analysis
> This problem introduce the technique called  `sliding window` This is useful technique using two pointers. I referred it as to pointers but it doesn't have to be the "pointer" that used in c language. As long as some value represents its data through some medium, it can be considered as pointers. For example, Array's index can be considered as pointer because we can represent some value `arr[i]` through index `i` : `arr[i]` is `i`'s dereferenced value.
> So what is `sliding window` ?
> Sliding window use two pointers. One plays a role as `extending` and the other plays a role as `contractting` Using these pointers, we can address the `range`. Applying this to this problem, what we need to do is to find the range that has the longest length with given condition : `without repeating characters`. 
---
### Implementation Solution

##### My Approach
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int lengthOfLongestSubstring(string s) {
        set<char> myset;
        vector<char> vt;
        char arr[s.length() + 1];
        strcpy(arr, s.c_str());
        int res =0;
        for(int i = 0; i< s.length(); i++){
            while(myset.find(arr[i]) != myset.end()){
                auto it = vt.begin();
                myset.erase(*it);
                vt.erase(it);
            }
            myset.insert(arr[i]);
            vt.push_back(arr[i]);
            int sz = vt.size(); 
            res = max(res, sz);
        }
        return res;
    }
};

```
- How to convert string into char array
	-Define char array whose size is the length of the string incremented 1
	-strcpy `c_str()` into the array defined
- Implementation of  `Sliding Window` 
	-outer loop play a role as `extending`
	-inner loop play a role as `contracting`

When I look up the solution, I realized I didn't even have to use a lot of container data structure. I have used three : char array, set and the vector. The leet code solution is more clear because it used hash map.

##### Leet Code Solution 
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int lengthOfLongestSubstring(string s) {
        unordered_set<char, int> chars;

        int left = 0;
        int right = 0;

        int res = 0;
        while (right < s.length()) {
            char r = s[right];
            chars[r]++;

            while (chars[r] > 1) {
                char l = s[left];
                chars[l]--;
                left++;
            }

            res = max(res, right - left + 1);

            right++;
        }

        return res;
    }
};




```
It actually turned out that I don't even need to use `char[]` to convert string s. C++ can do it for me. string s's characters can be accessed through `s[]`
 And I think this solution is more professional because it is more readable and elegant in some way. Notice line number 71 while loop's condition. It was little bit confusing because I was wondering how `chars[r]` can control `left` pointer. This is  because we are focusing on the `value` in the map. For example, suppose `chars[r]` is currently 3, we can modify this `value` using `chars[l]` as well as using `chars[r]` ( By incrementing `left` or `right`) we can make `chars[l]` and `chars[r]` point same thing.
 
 ##### Time and Space Complexity
O(N)

