---
Topics: dp
Repeat: \
---### Date :  2022-09-01 12:54

### Problem :  LIS


### From : LeetCode
#dp 

---
### Problem Prompt
Given an integer array `nums`, return the length of the longest strictly increasing subsequence.

A **subsequence** is a sequence that can be derived from an array by deleting some or no elements without changing the order of the remaining elements. For example, `[3,6,2,7]` is a subsequence of the array `[0,3,1,6,2,2,7]`.

---
### Approach & Analysis
> dp bottom-up approach
> **Definition:** `dp[i]` : the length of the longest increasing subsequence of the sequence a0, a1, a2, ... ai i
> **BaseCase** : `dp[0]`  = 1
> **Solution** : The maximum Value in the table.
> **Formula** : `dp[i] = max{dp[j]} + 1` where aj < ai
> 			if no such element exists, `dp[i] = 1`



---
### Implementation Solution
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int lengthOfLIS(vector<int>& nums) {
        int inputSize = nums.size();
        vector<int> dp(inputSize, 1);
        
        for(int i = 1; i< inputSize; i++){
            for(int j = 0; j<i; j++){
                if(nums[i] > nums[j]){ 
                dp[i] = max(dp[j]+1, dp[i]);
                }
                
            }
        }
        
        int ans = 0;
        for(int i : dp){
            ans = max(ans, i);
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```

### Implementation Analysis
 - Line 32 : It's important to initialize every element in `dp table` . This is the key point of the implementation. I tried to use `if and else` statement. So whenever `nums[i]` is greater than `nums[j]`, I do something otherwise I initialize `dp[i]` to 1. However by initializing all elements to 1, I can compare all the previous elements with current element.
---
##### Time and Space Complexity

O(N^2)


Awesome method using `lower_bound ` function from STL.

>1. Define an empty vector
>2. Loop : given sequence of number
>	1. if size of defined vector is empty or the last element in the vector is less than current element of the iteration
>		`Push back the current element of the iteration`
>	Or :
>		change the last element of vector to current element of the iteration using lower_bound dereferencing.
> 3. Return defined vector's size
> 

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int lengthOfLIS(vector<int>& nums) {
       
    vector<int> ans;
    for (int a : nums)
        if (ans.size() == 0 || a > ans.back()) ans.push_back(a);
        else *lower_bound(ans.begin(), ans.end(), a) = a;
    return ans.size();

    }
};
```