---
Topics: dp
---### Date :  2022-08-21 16:03

### Problem : LeetCode 70


### From : 
		#`dp`
---
### Problem Prompt 
You are climbing a staircase. It takes `n` steps to reach the top.

Each time you can either climb `1` or `2` steps. In how many distinct ways can you climb to the top?



---
### Problem Analysis
>DP problem can be categorized into two approach. First one is `top-down` approach where you use recursion with memoization technique. The other one is `bottem-up` approach where we use iterative approach. This very first dp problem is about solving Fibonacci series.  What is Fibonacci series? Fibonacci series is a series in which each number is the sum of two proceeding number. For example, 3,5,8,13, ... What I should do when I think it's dynamic programming problem. I think I should use the template that I learned in algorithm class. The method is following :
>Them template consists of four part : Definition, Base case, Solution, Formula. The most important part is Definition and Formula. We have to set the definition and try to fill out the table and see if there is a pattern. If there is a pattern, I should make it as formula. 
>	Let's talk about the problem. The problem asks for the total number of ways to get to the top of the stair with constrain of no more than two steps at a time.  We are given `n` which is total number of stairs and we can go up to n by adding `1` or `2` . if n is 3, there are three ways to get to the top, `1,1,1` , `1,2` , `2,1` . 
>	Let's try to apply the template :
>		 **Definition** : `SR[ i ]`  is the total number of ways to get to the `n` with the constraint("only going once or twice")
>		 **Base case** : `SR[1]` = 1
>		 **Solution** : `SR[n]`
>		 **Formula** :
>		  

| i     | 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   | 6   | 7   | 8   | 
| ----- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| SR[i] | 1 |  2   |  3   |  5   | 8    | 13 | 21    |34        |
>I tried to fill out this table and now I see the pattern which is the Fibonacci series. `SR[i] = SR[i-2] + SR[i-1]` Now how can I implement this solution? This template offer the bottom up approach which is going to be the iterative method. I see the table and I know following i will also follow this pattern. Then I can create an array and store all the answer and if the test program give any random number what I do is just look up the answer from the array.

---
### Implementation Solution
##### Bottom Up
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int climbStairs(int n) {
       int arr[46];
        arr[0] = 0;
        arr[1] = 1;
        arr[2] = 2;
        for(int i = 3; i< 46; i++){
            arr[i] = arr[i-1] + arr[i-2];
        }
        
        return arr[n];
    }
    
};

```
 I have checked the input constrains which is 1 <= n <= 45. That's what the weird number `46` comes from.

---
##### Repeat Counter

#SeeIfAnotherMethod : Top down appraoch using recursion with memoization.
