---
Topics: tree
---### Date :  2022-09-15 08:46

### Problem : 
Good problem to learn property of BST and `inorder` traversal.

### From :
 leetCode#98
 
---
### Problem Prompt
Given the `root` of a binary tree, _determine if it is a valid binary search tree (BST)_.

A **valid BST** is defined as follows:

-   The left subtree of a node contains only nodes with keys **less than** the node's key.
-   The right subtree of a node contains only nodes with keys **greater than** the node's key.
-   Both the left and right subtrees must also be binary search trees.


---
### Approach & Analysis
>Key Fact 1: `Inorder` traversal of valid binary search tree gives me sequence of numbers in ascending order.
>Key Fact 2: each node in valid binary search tree has valid upper bound and valid lower bound



**SledgeHammer approach** 
1. create an data structure
2. do the `inorder` traversal
3. when processing current node, put the value into data structure created.
4. Traverse the data structure see if array is sorted in ascending order : if it is return true
5. otherwise return false

**Algorithmic approach**
1. Call recursive function with the bound -INF <  x < INF
2. base case : if root is null return true
3. check if the root is in valid range
4. update valid range by setting different parameter of recursive function


---
### Implementation Solution
==SledgeHammer==
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    bool isValidBST(TreeNode* root) {
       vector<int> sledgeHammer;
       inorder(root,sledgeHammer);
        if(sledgeHammer.size()==1){
            return true;
        } 
        for(int i=0; i< sledgeHammer.size(); i++){
            if(i==0){
                if(sledgeHammer[i+1] <= sledgeHammer[i]){
                    return false;
                }
            }
            else{
                if(sledgeHammer[i] <= sledgeHammer[i-1]){
                    return false;
                }
            }
        }
        return true;
    }
    
    void inorder(TreeNode* root, vector<int>& sledgeHammer){
        if(root==NULL){
            return;
        }
        inorder(root->left, sledgeHammer);
        sledgeHammer.push_back(root->val);
        inorder(root->right, sledgeHammer);
        
    }
};




```
==Algorithmic==
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    bool isValidBST(TreeNode* root) {
         
        return valid(root,LONG_MIN, LONG_MAX);
    }
    
    bool valid(TreeNode* root, long lower, long upper){
        if(root==NULL){
            return true;
        }
        if(root->val >= upper || root->val <= lower){
            return false;
        }
       return valid(root->left,lower, root->val) && valid(root->right, root->val,upper );
    }
};

```


---
#### Major Mistakes I made
In second solution, 
Initial call should be LONG_MIN and LONG_MAX not INT_MIN and INT_MAX there fore function definition should also be  `long` instead of `int` This is because one of the test cases include an list with single value of INT_MAX.


---
##### Time and Space Complexity
O(N) visit each node exactly once.
O(N) we keep up to the entire tree.

